Summary added to Philosophy (#111)
destinygg/destinypositions: docs/philosophy.md

title: Philosophy
---

## Why Philosophy is Important

> When doing online debate about politics, it is extremely important to have a philosophical foundation from which to draw practical conclusions. Politics is downstream from philosophy, and you could argue that it is simply the practice of applied philosophy on a societal level. While I have no formal eduation in philosophy, through the use of reasources such as the [Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy](https://plato.stanford.edu/index.html) and Wikipedia articles, I have taken pains to construct some sort of philosophical heuristic to solve policy issues. This has allowed me to more effectively understand my own and others' arguments through the underlying philosophical values and processes at play, as well as create a consistent set of rules to abide by when evaluating various political issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When doing online debate about politics, it is extremely important to have a philosophical foundation from which to draw practical conclusions. Politics is downstream from philosophy, and you could argue that it is simply the practice of applied philosophy on a societal level. While I have no formal education in philosophy, through the use of resources such as the [Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy](https://plato.stanford.edu/index.html) and Wikipedia articles, I have taken pains to construct some sort of philosophical heuristic to solve policy issues. This has allowed me to more effectively understand my own and others' arguments through the underlying philosophical values and processes at play, as well as create a consistent set of rules to abide by when evaluating various political issues.
```

My applied political positions always follow from my moral system. I think the world would be a better place if people reflected more on their internal, fundamental values and used those as guiding principles to establish their political values, rather than blindly following an ideologue, or using inherited positions from their parents, religion, country, or party.

A lot of political debate boils down to having some differing, fundamental position. Instead of two people arguing at a surface level about an issue, it is sometimes more useful to dive down to try and figure out what the other person actually believes at a fundamental level. A great example of this is abortion — people will often debate back and forth about the legality of abortion while ignoring that they fundamentally disagree on whether or not a fetus should carry the same (or similar) moral consideration as an infant child.

### My Foundational Beliefs

> I have a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-eTcjGsK08) where I break down how I contruct my philosophical worldview, which I highly recommend watching for a fleshed-out understanding of my position. However, if you don't have the time to watch now, here is a short summary of my philosophical foundations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I have a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-eTcjGsK08) where I break down how I construct my philosophical worldview, which I highly recommend watching for a fleshed-out understanding of my position. However, if you don't have the time to watch now, here is a short summary of my philosophical foundations:
```

- [There is no such thing as morality](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-anti-realism/), however I think that ethical conversations provide us with utility insofar as they allow us to have discussions on how to solve problems in society. (This has similarities to a philosophical school of thought called [Fictionalism](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/fictionalism/#ViaEliAnt).)

> - I and every human wishes to maximise their own experience. This is purposely vague, as what this means varies from person to person, but in simple terms it refers to having a maximal quality of life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I solemnly believe that every human wishes to maximize their own experience. This is purposely vague, as what this means varies from person to person, but in simple terms it refers to having a maximal quality of life.
```

> - The best way to maximise my own experience is to help maximise others' experience as well as my own. I believe that humans have a unique capability for reciprocity, and that given this universal goal, pooling the efforts of a community of people will exponentially increase progress towards it. I (and most other people) also lose quality of life when those around me do (e.g. seeing people homeless, having friends with poor mental health, having ill family members, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The best way to maximize my own experience is to help maximize others' experience as well as my own. I believe that humans have a unique capability for reciprocity, and that given this universal goal, pooling the efforts of a community of people will exponentially increase progress towards it. I (and most other people) also lose quality of life when those around me do (e.g. seeing people homeless, having friends with poor mental health, having ill family members, etc).
```
